hey guys welcome to my channel I just
had an online meetup event where I had
people from all over the world and we
all spoke English and we were just
cussing online business in 2020 and what
I've noticed is that people who are not
English native speakers we're using a
language that is textbook so there were
some people who are in the US and their
language was completely different and
one was listening to those people I
started noting those differences and I
decided to share my insights with you
because with these insights you will be
able to speak English as a native
speaker and you wouldn't sound I would
say a little old-fashioned because when
you're using this textbook English you
sound a little too academic or a little
too old-fashioned with these tips by the
end of this class your English will be
more native will be more kind of
American and Morton so if you're
interested continue watching this video
[Music]
let's start with a very basic and a very
common thing you probably know it but
not all of you are using it in your
everyday speech and this thing is
reduced forms let's look at some
examples instead of want to you say
wanna I don't know I want to go to
London I want to study in the US because
when you say I want to study in the US
it sounds a little weird it doesn't have
this natural flow so with these reduced
form so you're getting this natural flow
to your language let's look at another
example and please go ahead and try
saying stuff together with me I'm going
to wash the car but you're gonna say I'm
gonna wash that car my car wash up
you see the difference you see it's a
completely different attitudes
completely different mood on the
sentence when somebody asks you what
time is it you can say I don't know
which is again a little strange you say
I don't know I don't know and this D is
actually replaced with our I don't know
you're not saying D you don't say I
don't know you're saying I don't know
it's like I don't know yeah it's weird
but this is how it works with the
language I don't know try listen I don't
know and I don't care and the last but
not the least got two verses god I gotta
do my homework instead of I got to do my
homework we gotta fix it God by the way
you can say I got to do my homework if
you decide to speak British English and
this is my tip number two you need to
decide which accent you want to adopt
because you can speak British English
you can speak Canadian English you can
speak Australian English you can speak
American English
[Music]
and there is nothing wrong with either
of those access it's just you need to be
consistent and I started learning
English with a British version and I
really liked it and I think I can still
imitate my British accent I don't know
I'm not using it at all
maybe if I come to Britain for a week I
will get back to British accent but I
like American accent and I would say
American accent is the easiest to learn
just because there is so many resources
in American English I try to speak with
an American accent there are a lot of
youtubers out there if you take top 20
youtubers I think all of them will be
from the US I'm going to be surprising
my best friend Shane Canadian accent is
supposed to be the easiest to understand
so if you're struggling with
understanding native speakers try and
Google Canadian youtubers and watch
their videos first and then once you
start understanding them maybe you just
stick with the Canadian accent or you
develop your ear and you move on to
American youtubers or you decide that
Britain is your way to go and you adopt
British accent but one thing here is
just be consistent with whatever you
choose by the way guys if you are
looking for more ways to improve your
English to speak like a native speaker
I have created a workbook in English
which has all of the rules that you can
think of we have idioms there we have
lists of movies that you can watch in
American English we have a list of
youtubers and Instagram bloggers that
you can follow vlog in English so you
can get a sense of what real English is
we have a lot of visual examples of how
to use different articles we have a lot
of tasks and tests for you and I worked
on this product for four months I really
hope you enjoyed the link will be below
it's really interactive it has a video
from me where I explain you how to use
it or explain new tenses in English the
most used tenses it's really useful for
any English language learner and it
doesn't matter which level you're at
right now because it covers almost every
topic in English and I think it's going
to be really useful for you the link
will be below but made
really affordable it's a very small
check but it's a lot a lot of value and
we've sold over 20,000 copies already
and we've got amazing reviews from
students from all over the world so the
link will be below let me know what you
think about my workbook no the next is
learn to ignore fillers and also learn
to use them let's take a look at a list
of common fillers actually anyway
basically by the way erm by the way with
um I have a very interesting story when
I was reading a book and they had this
herb there and I was like what does that
mean and I started digging it up in the
dictionary and I couldn't find it and
then I started googling it and then I
realized this is just a way to ride the
sound
erm it took me some time and if you
encounter one of those filler words
don't try to translate them just ignore
them and this is your way to understand
native speakers at the same time if you
need time to think during your speech
please feel free to insert them to get
some extra time to think what you're
gonna say next let's look at some other
examples of filler words I mean
incidentally in fact obviously well you
know let's look at the sentence with
filler words by the way I saw mark
yesterday and so obviously I said hello
to him but he basically ignored me you
see we have a lot of filler words here
that don't really affect the meaning
they just they're for somebody who said
the sentence to take some time to think
about what's gonna be next let's remove
all the filler words and look at the
sentence once again I saw mark yesterday
I said hello to him but he ignored me 13
words instead of 20 words you see makes
a lot of difference especially if you're
struggling to understand things you just
omit them and you go ahead you save your
time you don't panic because you don't
understand every single word the next
important thing contractions contraction
is also something to do with delivery
but we're talking about
actions in the language I am is it if I
am hungry you say um hungry and it's not
even I'm hungry I'm hungry
um like um funny um hungry this is the
way to contract I am I'm hungry you say
I'll instead of I will I'll do that
I'll pick it up I'll be back but please
don't use this contraction with names
you can say Kate LLL do that Kate will
do that the only way to say will with
names is to say the whole thing
Kate will do that you cannot use
contractions with names instead of do
not you say don't I don't like it it's
just the way to speed up your speech I
don't like it
try and say to yourself I don't like it
I don't like it
I've instead of I have I've got your
back
I've done this before I am I've got your
back and I instead of I would I'd like
to join you
I'd like to stay home I'd like to know
pay attention to stress in your speech
what do you notice right now is that
I've emphasized the word stress because
I want your attention on this word pay
attention to stress and this is what
Americans do a lot they either slow down
when something important is going on or
they make their voice louder louder when
they want to emphasize a word or they
just raise their intonation when
something is really important you see
how I highlighted really with my speech
so that's also a hint for you to
understand natives they would always
highlight the most important word with
their intonation or loudness of their
voice next tip use slang and yes we've
learned a lot of slang words with you
but I just want to emphasize that people
use those Lang words a lot because
sometimes you learn them and you're in
your country and you're like okay
whatever but then you start interacting
with native speakers and suddenly
they're like do you want to hang out
with me for me to hang out with you and
you're like what was that
hang out is to spend time together oh we
had a blast yesterday it was
amazing party we're gonna have it blast
and you're like what does that mean to
have a blast needs to have fun so please
read watch my videos where I talk about
slang words they're really awesome I
love slang because it has a lot of
culture in it we watch them try to use
them in your speech when you're speaking
with native speakers
and by the way disclaimer here if you're
writing an academic essay please don't
use any of the rules that I mentioned
this video because academic essays are
all about being way too academic boring
old-fashioned and not the way you are in
your real life unfortunately but these
are the rules and every cloud has a
silver lining if you know what I mean
then you've learned different idioms and
Proverbs and sayings and this is another
important thing to do when you're
learning a foreign language
always always always learn the idioms
because if somebody says I'm feeling
under the weather and you're like what
does that mean because he can't figure
out from just reading this idiom what it
means because to feel under the weather
means to feel bad but how are you
supposed to figure it out if it's sunny
outside if the sun is shining and if the
weather is amazing how can feeling under
the weather be a bad thing but it is a
little under the weather this morning
let's play by ear what does that mean
how can we play by ear the only way to
understand it is to learn to play by ear
means to look at circumstances look at
what's gonna happen and then decide
based on those things so there are so
many idioms and proverbs and sayings
that I urge you to learn again I have a
lot of videos on that and you can
rewatch them thank you so much for
watching this video up to the very young
guys and if we want to be more
proficient in English if we want to
sound like natives we're gonna say see
ya and don't forget to subscribe to this
channel and like this video if you've
enjoyed the content yeah